1.1: Exposition
The foreman had been waiting at the door when they returned from lunch.
He gave Steve a quick glance, then went back into his office. Steve
went down the corridor towards the mine shaft, and suddenly stopped.
Something about the foreman's expression had made him uneasy. There was
a strange feeling that he could not place--it was something like fear.

Steve shook himself out of it, then went on through the tunnel until
he reached the main level of the mine. He walked along the gallery for
a few minutes before stopping again. This time he knew exactly what
was wrong. It was something that had happened during the morning.
Somewhere along the line, he realized, he hadn't been alive. That was
all there was to it. He couldn't remember when it had happened or how
long it had lasted; but somehow he just knew.

The thought came slowly, reluctantly. He tried to put it out of his mind
and go on with his work. But no matter how hard he tried, the idea kept
coming back to him. Finally he could stand it no longer. He started
out of the mine towards the work barracks, his mind still racing with
the incredible fact.

1.2: Inciting Incident
"I'll need you back here first thing Monday morning," said Mr. Barlow. He
patted Steve on the shoulder and walked away.

As soon as he left, Steve went down to the mineshaft. The foreman,
Bob, was standing by the head of the tunnel staring at nothing. Bob
gave no sign that he saw Steve; then suddenly his eyes widened and his
expression turned oddly fearful. He didn't move or speak--just stared.
Then he hurried into his little office and shut the door.

Steve shrugged and continued down the tunnel to the main level. He
stopped there for a moment. Somehow it seemed wrong to go on. Something
had happened today that he couldn't remember. But what? He couldn't say
for sure, even when he tried to think about it. He shook off the vague
feeling of uneasiness and started toward the work barracks.

1.3: Plot Point A
I felt very queer as I walked down the dark hallway toward the
mining compound. The air was damp with moisture from the earth. The
dull roar of machinery filled my ears. I could hear voices. They were
shouting and laughing. Ahead, I saw the brightly lit entrance to the
mine itself. As I stepped closer, the light seemed to grow brighter and
brighter until it almost hurt my eyes. Then I heard a voice calling me.
It came from the doorway of one of the little offices on either side of
the corridor. It was Bob, the foreman. He was standing there, looking
at me in terror. His face had gone pale beneath its tan. He didn’t say
anything; he just stood staring at me with his mouth open and his hands
clenched tightly by his sides. When he finally spoke, his words came
out in a hoarse whisper. “Don’t come near me! Don’t touch me!” he
cried. “I don’t want any part of you, or anything to do with you.”
Then he turned around and hurried back into his office, slamming the
door behind him.

2.1: Rising Action
I made my way through the maze of corridors and soon reached the large room where the miners gathered during their breaks. It was empty now, and the only sound was the distant hum of machinery.

Suddenly, a group of men entered. They were miners, and they looked tired and haggard. As they walked past me, one of them turned and stared at me with wide eyes.

"You!" he said. He grabbed my arm. "You! It's you! We knew it wasn't over. What did you do?"

The other miners gathered around us. They all spoke at once. I listened, and slowly it dawned on me what had happened. All those strange things I had heard and seen were not just isolated incidents. There were hundreds of them. And they were all victims like me.

"What can we do?" someone asked.

"We can fight," I answered. "Together."

They nodded. They wanted to believe. But would they be able to overcome their fear? Would they have the courage to defy their bosses and risk everything for this cause?

2.2: Midpoint
"No, it's not," I said. "It's a warning."

"But you don't have any proof," one of them argued.

"I know what I saw!"

They were all nodding agreement now. There was no doubt among them about what I had seen. But there was still doubt in their hearts about what they should do about it.

I knew that doubt would grow into panic when this man came back and told the others. I tried to think of something to say that might help them overcome their doubts and join me in my crusade against the evil things that haunted our world.

"We must act fast," I said. "If we wait too long, the situation will get worse, and then it may be impossible for us to make any progress at all. We must go to the mine tonight and band together. Then we must begin our struggle against the forces that rule our lives. Together, we can accomplish anything."

"But if we refuse to work?" someone asked. "What happens to us then?"

"We'll see," I replied. "There is only one way to find out. We must try. If we succeed, we will prove that we can control our fate instead of being controlled by those who seek to exploit us. And if we fail, then we shall die. But we will die knowing that we gave everything we had for what we believed was right."

2.3: Plot Point B
“But we’ve got to do something,” I said.

“I know you think so, but you must understand—”

“No!” I broke in. “We’re going to have to make a stand sometime! We
can’t go back into hiding every time they come around. It’ll get worse
and worse until it’s too late.”

“Yes, maybe,” he agreed. “But how can you prove anything? And even
if you could, what good would it do?”

“It might save us some trouble,” I suggested. “You don’t want to be
fighting these people any more than we do.”

“Oh, yes, but if we don’t do what they ask...”

He left it hanging there, but we both knew what he meant. If they
didn’t comply with their demands, they could be sentenced to death by
the Council. It was an ugly prospect, but one that had to be faced
eventually.

“Well, what do you suggest?” I asked him. “Give ourselves up?”

“No, we’d better not,” he replied. “There’s nothing else for it.
Let’s meet tonight at the mine.”

“All right, then,” I nodded. “If we can’t stop this thing now, we’ll
never be able to.”

       

The next few days were a whirlwind of activity. There were no more
attempts to contact me through the phone or by messenger. Instead, the
government decided to send a heavily armed security force to suppress
what they called an outbreak of terrorism. They came down hard, and
Steve and I were lucky to escape with our lives. Our comrades didn’t
fare quite so well. They managed to hold out for two days, but eventually
they were overpowered, and most of them were taken away to face trial
before the Council.

By this time Steve and I were feeling pretty low. We hadn’t been
able to accomplish very much, and we felt that we had lost almost every
advantage we had gained during the past weeks. The only remaining hope
was that we still had our secret information, and that we might somehow
be able to use it to help bring about change in the Martian government.
This was all we had left to offer, but whether anyone would listen to
us was another question.

“Maybe we should try to see some of the leaders of the space
organizations,” I suggested to Steve. “They might be willing to listen
to us.”

“That’s probably the best idea,” he agreed. “We might be able to work
something out together.”

3.1: Pre Climax
“It’ll be over soon.”

He nodded. “I know it will. I’m just afraid it won’t be pretty. But we have no choice now. We must act before they kill us.” He looked down at the papers he held, then up again. “What do you say? Shall we go back and try to get some sleep?”

Steve shrugged. “Why not?”

They left the office and started toward the door. As they reached it, Steve stopped. “Mike,” he said softly.

“Yes?”

“If this doesn’t work, there’s nothing else for us to do but die. Don’t let me die without a fight if that happens, okay?”

“Sure thing, buddy. And if things don’t turn out so well for me, I want you to fight like hell, too.”

Steve grinned. “Okay, deal!”

The two men stepped outside and walked slowly through the night until they reached the main road. There were still a few people around; they didn’t bother them. Soon they were walking along the road leading eastward away from the city, and after a while, they came to the edge of town. They could hear the faint sounds of vehicles moving through the streets behind them.

“Well,” Mike said, “here goes nothing.”

“That’s right,” Steve agreed.

3.2: Climax
We left the building and walked across the street, heading toward our car. I
could see the fear in his eyes; it was almost palpable. It was strange--I had
never seen him afraid before.
       
"Look," he said, "we're going out there now. If we don't come back, you'll
know what happened."

"What do you mean?"

"If we fail, if we die...."

"Well, we won't fail, will we?"

"No. But if we do..."

He stopped, looking at me.

"Put up a good fight, will you?" I asked.

"Of course."

"Okay, then. Let's go."

We got into the car. I started the engine, and we drove away from the
building. The sounds of city life faded behind us.

3.3: Denouement
"You know what you're asking," he said. "If we fail... If I die..."

He had not been this frightened since the day he had gone into space. The
mission was dangerous; he knew it. But there were so many people counting
on him now--all of us together. There would be no way to tell how long
this war would last, and who knows what other battles we might face? We
had to win, somehow, or risk losing everything we had fought for.

